I guess let's not forget webcore
>> [LAUGH]
>> Gives JavaScript access to the DOM and
pixels still.
But this is gonna allow us,
what have we changed here?
There's our data, one piece of data.
There's our handlers,
handle click and handle input.
Honestly, I'm already feeling
better after my pen debacle
because when I see this actually
it does make me really happy.
Look at that, one function line for
dataToview that can affect our view.
By the way note, everything is
being affected there based on data.
We go into the land of ternaries
particularly because they are a great
way to shorthand, set conditional logic
for if data looks this way display this.
And if we're saying that everything that
user sees must depend on underlying data.
You're gonna imagine we're gonna write
a lot of conditionals if data looks this
way, display this.
If data looks this way, display this.
But, it's all in one place and
then whatever the user does I'm
not gonna have to sort of track back
through which actions they took.
All the user can do, when they click or
start writing is in line 11 and
line 15 you can see it, update the data.
And then run that dataToview
converter function, one place,
one function in which what
the user sees can change.
What the user or
our handlers can do is update data.
It's a restriction that is immensely
popular that limits us to only
changing underlying data.
And then running in this case
a single function dataToview that's
gonna convert that data
into what the user sees.
Such that we have, if you wanted to get
fancy about it set up some data and
then a description of
the view based on that data.
And that description is defined as
described within the dataToview function.
And then whatever the user does must
channel through a change of data.
Is it perfect,
is it the only way to do it?
Not at all.
Is it an incredibly restrictive and
predictable way that ensures
that I have a full history?
I can view this as I have this bug.
I click this thing, I did this I
don't know why this showed up.
And we as engineers are going well,
it's any one of the 500
lines determine our view.
And it's any particular
order of the handlers
executing that determine
what you're seeing?
No.
In fact, we'll be able to see if we were
to have some sort of debugger tracking
the underlying data in our app
as the users live running it.
We will be able to see exactly
the history or we could archive data.
You can see exactly the history
of our data check data.
And then from that exactly know
what the user should and would see.
Because the only way to change what the or
the only way to display for
the user to see anything is via
a call to the dataToview function.
This could even here,
create some interesting situations
where whatever the user does
we're no longer having to reason about
which bit or the view to update.
We're no longer having to go, okay,
do you remember here right before?
We had to go, okay,
if a user starts writing
then change the text content of the div,
okay?
In line handleclick if
the user starts right, click,
sorry change the value of the input from
what's on your mind to empty string.
If the user's not yet
done anything, then set the input's
value to what's on your mind.
And I guess, honestly,
have the div have nothing in it.
We didn't even state that with a div and
said you got nothing in it.
Not setting it's still a decision not
putting any content in the div is
still a decision in implicit one here but
still a decision.
No longer do we have to think about four
or five different places that we could
change under different
conditions what the user's done.
Instead, just use this action update data.
This is a shift in reasoning,
though, a shift in way of thinking.
It means that every single
thing that a user sees,
you need to be able to capture
it in some way in data.
But you know what you always were.
Even though you didn't show that the div
had content here, you were implicitly
before the user clicked or whatever you
were implicitly setting content off.
I guess the div was not set it was sort of
set to undefined or set to empty string.
There's no such thing as any data anything
that's changed on the screen has to have
associated data behind it
otherwise how you're changing it.
So, all we're doing really here is
acknowledging that we're saying that
everything on the screen must be a so
if you want to change it.
Otherwise, fine if you just want
to have it no change it to it.
But anything be changed must have
associated underlying data with it.
Don't bring that data at random in
a handler and then forget about it or
come back to it and or cheat.
No, every piece of data
will be defined and
then at any given set of the data
combination you can see exactly
what we produced via a single pipeline
function called dataToreview.
That will produce the output
conditional on that data,
not conditional on previous changes
to the out previous displays.
And then implicitly,
there's underlying data that you
are changing there without realizing it.
No change the data and
associated view must change
then they can't not be in sync.
We're going to see this makes
things really quite fun and
the way we implement this
is not very efficient.
But this if you look at every time we want
to change what the user sees which is
interaction, right?
We are going to run dataToview.
What if we just had dataToview run like so
often that whenever the user's data
changes the view updatable run?
And that's exactly what we're
going to do right after.
While we would not use this in practice in
the long term, it's completely untenable.
It's already my favorite word,
running dataToview every 15 milliseconds.
But that's fast and
I can see to ensure any data change as
soon as it happens would be displayed.
Another funny consequence
of doing this model and
again this is a move not a truth.
Another funny consequence of this is
that there's gonna be nothing on our
C++ object that is not at least not for
a more than a millisecond or so or
15 milliseconds, I guess.
That is not a consequence of our data.
Even things, by the way,
that we didn't need to update.
When Ian wrote Ian into the field,
into the input field we didn't
need to then re update Ian.
But I don't want to have to reason about,
whether to update Ian in
this particular situation.
I want to keep it everything on that
screen must depend on exactly what is in
JavaScript data.
Meaning if we look at
our little code here,
we're going to update input value
to whatever the user typed in.
In this case Ian, every single time.
So when the user starts writing,
we're going to update the data
in line 15 handleInput.
Put inputs value into post and
then we're going to redisplay it on the
screen because I don't want to work out.
In this condition I only need
to update because I want to
tell you to do on the click
all I actually need to update
is the input value to
remove the default text.
On the typing, all I actually
need to update is the div but
that's all ready a lot of thinking.
You've got a thousand elements and
I've got to work out which ones I
need to update on each handler.
And it depends on the history of
the order of the running of the handlers.
I don't know how we got away so long
without having this sort of restriction.
So instead, even though it's completely
unnecessary to update all the content.
We don't need to update the input
value when Ian's just typed in their
name there already.
We don't need to when the user clicks
we don't actually need to update
the div because the user hasn't written
anything so the div can just be empty.
We do it anyway because
we want one simple rule.
User changes data, data change triggers or
we may remember to run a complete
converter of that data
to all associated
dependent underlying view.
We're getting very close people
to having a full restricted
implementation of user
interface engineering or
the user interface design pattern.
They call it a pattern for structuring,
building out a user interface that
has become the trademark structure for
engineers.
And it's the bit that even if we like to
joke, spin up a virtual DOM or whatever.
It's a bit if you were building
your own sort of small app or
not even small but app without using
a framework it would be surprising for
me if you didn't say let's start
with all possible data that
can determine all possible sets
of views in the application.
And then let's have some sort of,
we'll break them up into functions but
we'll start with state and
data in JavaScript.
And everything the user can see will
be derived from that underlying data.
And then any handling of user's actions
will start by changing the data and
then will convert back
to what the user sees.
Not any action by the user which
is what we used to do by the way,
very standard go and change what
the user sees based off that action.
Any action by the user must
change underlying data and
then a single standardized converter
function which works for all conditions.
We don't even have to think about that,
that's too much to think about.
And to a fault by the way,
that means as you can see we're gonna
be updating content unnecessarily.
But our computers are pretty damn fast
they can definitely take a bit of
unnecessary updating.
Our computer can put up with updating
a few unnecessary pieces of content for
the gains of our time to work
out which bits to update.
Have one description of
what's going to show up and
a bunch of conditional logic for
the different conditions.
And then update the data on the users
action and [SOUND] update the view and
that's what we're going to do.
I will say, don't worry people in
practice at any scale we're gonna need
to be more efficient under the hood.
That's what we'll see when we talk
about performance, diffing algorithms,
state hooks, all these sort of things.
But on a small application, honestly, it's
not entirely clear you would need to spin
up your own implementation
of the virtual DOM.
Probably because all you could
do little sub pieces of it.
You could do some little pieces that
kind of in egregious situations,
make sure you're not repopulating or
break down your functions to your updater
to be only applying to
some bits of the page.
So, you're not going to
reload all the content.